Add bulk:deleteByQuery (#1614)
kuzzleio/kuzzle: doc/2/api/controllers/bulk/delete-by-query/index.md

---
code: true
type: page
title: deleteByQuery
---

# deleteByQuery

Deletes documents matching the provided search query. 

This is a low level route intended to bypass Kuzzle actions on document deletion, notably:
  - check document write limit
  - trigger [realtime notifications](/core/2/guides/essentials/real-time)

---

## Query Syntax

### HTTP

```http
URL: http://kuzzle:7512/<index>/<collection>/_bulk/_query[?refresh=wait_for]
Method: DELETE
Body:
```

```js
{
  "query": {
    // ...
  }
}
```

### Other protocols

```js
{
  "index": "<index>",
  "collection": "<collection>",
  "controller": "document",
  "action": "deleteByQuery",
  "refresh": "wait_for",
  "body": {
    "query": {
      // ...
    }
  }
}
```

---

## Arguments

- `collection`: collection name
- `index`: index name

> ### Optional:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Optional
```

> - `refresh`: if set to `wait_for`, Kuzzle will not respond until the deleted documents are indexed

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `refresh`: if set to `wait_for`, Kuzzle will not respond until the deleted documents are removed from the search indexes
```
